Clarify algorithms for recursive disclosures (#431)
oauth-wg/oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt: draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt.md

not contain decoy digests unless explicitly stated. For an example
with decoy digests, see (#example-simple_structured).

### Recursive Disclosures {#recursive_disclosures}

The algorithms above are compatible with "recursive disclosures", in which one
selectively disclosed field reveals the existence of more selectively
disclosable fields.  For example, consider the following JSON structure:

```json
{
    "family_name", "Möbius",
    "nationalities": ["DE", "FR", "UK"] 
}
```

> The issuer may wish to allow the holder to reveal no nationalities at all, but
> require that if any nationalities are disclosed, then "DE" must be disclosed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Holder has multiple nationalities, the issuer may wish to allow the holder to reveal
each of those nationalities individually.
```

Reviewer 2: The example below should be adapted accordingly.

not contain decoy digests unless explicitly stated. For an example
with decoy digests, see (#example-simple_structured).

### Recursive Disclosures {#recursive_disclosures}

The algorithms above are compatible with "recursive disclosures", in which one
selectively disclosed field reveals the existence of more selectively
disclosable fields.  For example, consider the following JSON structure:

```json
{
    "family_name", "Möbius",
    "nationalities": ["DE", "FR", "UK"] 
}
```

The issuer may wish to allow the holder to reveal no nationalities at all, but

> require that if any nationalities are disclosed, then "DE" must be disclosed.

Reviewer 3: weird example but okay

This can be accomplished by first making the "FR" and "UK" entries within
the array selectively disclosable, and then the whole "nationalities" field.

``` ascii-art
{
    "family_name", "Möbius",
    "nationalities": [
        "DE", 
        { "...": "Yr1KUNYXI6WzJKhP4Hwyu9Q1ejubVCcJRG1C9FiWr+c" },
        { "...": "mcU-e_A2tUM4jbm0BNrOTeCgrGUzImXepLonaMnFCvE" }
    ] 
}

Disclosures:
Yr1KUNY... = ["f_ZD3150Og1VUlqREPe_mg","FR"]
mcU-e_A... = ["YIKG6qOkXXNzMQtsX_H-lw","UK"]
```

``` ascii-art
{
    "family_name", "Möbius",
    "_sd": [ "wjj8P4DvQ9cNWoDtqkOPYKfV7OCbuxlzkGTdUEGblVw" ]
}

Disclosures:
Yr1KUNY... = ["f+ZD3150Og1VUlqREPe+mg", "FR"]
mcU-e_A... = ["YIKG6qOkXXNzMQtsX_H-lw", "UK"]
wjj8P4D... = [
    "4bPeSUK9aY_PlF4gcXnlGg", 
    "nationalities", 
    [
        "DE",
        { "...": "62bd4a50d61723a5b324a84fe07c32bbd4357a3b9b542709446d42f45896afe7" },
        { "...": "99c53e7bf036b543388db9b404dace4de0a0ac65332265dea4ba2768c9c50af1" }
    ]
]

> ```

Reviewer 3: what's going on here with the hex encoding (above and below) and the unformatted example outside the triple ticks (below)? Which is sort of a rhetorical question. Please fix.

Reviewer 3: see also https://twitter.com/__b_c/status/434083504381378560

Reviewer 2: It would be great if we could have a generated example here to avoid any inconsistencies.

Reviewer: > see also https://twitter.com/__b_c/status/434083504381378560

how many puppies have died since 2014...

Reviewer: this ascii-art is different from how disclosures are illustrated in the rest of the spec, should we follow those?:

```
Claim sub:

SHA-256 Hash: X6ZAYOII2vPN40V7xExZwVwz7yRmLNcVwt5DL8RLv4g
Disclosure:
WyIyR0xDNDJzS1F2ZUNmR2ZyeU5STjl3IiwgInN1YiIsICI2YzVjMGE0OS1i
NTg5LTQzMWQtYmFlNy0yMTkxMjJhOWVjMmMiXQ
Contents: ["2GLC42sKQveCfGfryNRN9w", "sub",
"6c5c0a49-b589-431d-bae7-219122a9ec2c"]
```

Reviewer: @bifurcation did you want to use sd-jwt library that we use to generate other examples https://github.com/openwallet-foundation-labs/sd-jwt-python
or just copy past from other examples in the spec?

Reviewer 3: tried to save a few cute puppies 21f3ae8e67913798fcb2186ba342efabc5770d01

not contain decoy digests unless explicitly stated. For an example
with decoy digests, see (#example-simple_structured).

### Recursive Disclosures {#recursive_disclosures}

The algorithms above are compatible with "recursive disclosures", in which one
selectively disclosed field reveals the existence of more selectively
disclosable fields.  For example, consider the following JSON structure:

```json
{
    "family_name", "Möbius",

>     "nationalities": ["DE", "FR", "UK"] 

Reviewer 2: Whitespace!
```suggestion
    "nationalities": ["DE", "FR", "UK"]
```

}
```

The issuer may wish to allow the holder to reveal no nationalities at all, but
require that if any nationalities are disclosed, then "DE" must be disclosed.
This can be accomplished by first making the "FR" and "UK" entries within
the array selectively disclosable, and then the whole "nationalities" field.

``` ascii-art
{
    "family_name", "Möbius",
    "nationalities": [

>         "DE", 

Reviewer 2: Whitespace
```suggestion
        "DE",
```

        { "...": "Yr1KUNYXI6WzJKhP4Hwyu9Q1ejubVCcJRG1C9FiWr+c" },
        { "...": "mcU-e_A2tUM4jbm0BNrOTeCgrGUzImXepLonaMnFCvE" }

>     ] 

Reviewer 2: Whitespace...
```suggestion
    ]
```

}

Disclosures:
Yr1KUNY... = ["f_ZD3150Og1VUlqREPe_mg","FR"]
mcU-e_A... = ["YIKG6qOkXXNzMQtsX_H-lw","UK"]
```

``` ascii-art
{
    "family_name", "Möbius",
    "_sd": [ "wjj8P4DvQ9cNWoDtqkOPYKfV7OCbuxlzkGTdUEGblVw" ]
}

Disclosures:
Yr1KUNY... = ["f+ZD3150Og1VUlqREPe+mg", "FR"]
mcU-e_A... = ["YIKG6qOkXXNzMQtsX_H-lw", "UK"]
wjj8P4D... = [

>     "4bPeSUK9aY_PlF4gcXnlGg", 

Reviewer 2: Whitespace.
```suggestion
    "4bPeSUK9aY_PlF4gcXnlGg",
```

>     "nationalities", 

Reviewer 2: White space .
```suggestion
    "nationalities",
```

    [
        "DE",
        { "...": "62bd4a50d61723a5b324a84fe07c32bbd4357a3b9b542709446d42f45896afe7" },
        { "...": "99c53e7bf036b543388db9b404dace4de0a0ac65332265dea4ba2768c9c50af1" }
    ]
]
```

> ["4bPeSUK9aY_PlF4gcXnlGg","nationalities",["DE",{"...":"62bd4a50d61723a5b324a84fe07c32bbd4357a3b9b542709446d42f45896afe7"},{"...":"99c53e7bf036b543388db9b404dace4de0a0ac65332265dea4ba2768c9c50af1"}]]

Reviewer 2: This should be in backticks

Reviewer 3: or maybe just removed  ...

Reviewer 3: just remove
```suggestion
```

not contain decoy digests unless explicitly stated. For an example
with decoy digests, see (#example-simple_structured).

### Recursive Disclosures {#recursive_disclosures}

The algorithms above are compatible with "recursive disclosures", in which one
selectively disclosed field reveals the existence of more selectively
disclosable fields.  For example, consider the following JSON structure:

```json
{

>     "family_name", "Möbius",

Reviewer 3: um... 
```suggestion
    "family_name": "Möbius",
```

    "nationalities": ["DE", "FR", "UK"]
}
```

When the Holder has multiple nationalities, the issuer may wish to allow the holder to reveal
each of those nationalities individually.

> This can be accomplished by first making the "FR" and "UK" entries within
> the array selectively disclosable, and then the whole "nationalities" field.

Author: ```suggestion
This can be accomplished by first making the entries within the "nationalities"
array selectively disclosable, and then the whole "nationalities" field.
```

Reviewer 3: as kinda noted in 02d2fb07001057bbbe9532248478f5d31de80718 the text still needs to be adjusted and aligned to what the examples have but this is directionally correct.

``` ascii-art
{

>     "family_name", "Möbius",

Reviewer 3: who am I to say what makes JSON valid?
```suggestion
    "family_name": "Möbius",
```

    "nationalities": [
        "DE",

>         { "...": "Yr1KUNYXI6WzJKhP4Hwyu9Q1ejubVCcJRG1C9FiWr+c" },

Reviewer 3: I can't seem to reproduce these hash values, which makes me a wee bit nervous. But the full Disclosures aren't shown so it's a bit of a stretch anyway. But I'm going to plow ahead and hope I'm not doing something wrong thereby assuming @bifurcation made some mistake or just made the values up.  Blasphemous, I know, but I gotta move forward.

Reviewer 3: wait... "+" isn't in the base64url alphabet! WTF?

Reviewer 3: Reversing hashes is hard! 

But "+" was the clue I needed and extraneous padding on the not shown Disclosures was the key. Now @bifurcation owes me something in Vancouver. Beer is customary item but I'm 14 years sober so he might get away with something cheaper.

Reviewer 3: > Happy to supply whatever compensatory item makes sense! 

We will need to make something happen in YVR. 

>Thanks for picking this up, I was planning to handle it on a flight last Friday, but then it didn't have in-flight wifi.

I figured something came up. Meanwhile I'm trying to get something out before I-D cutoff and have limited co-author availability due to vacation etc. 

> Any errors here are totally on me. I was creating the hashes manually, typing / copy / pasting into `python3` REPL, and translating the results back manually to the URL safe alphabet.

It's hard to imagine how any mistakes made it into that pipeline. But there were a few...

        { "...": "mcU-e_A2tUM4jbm0BNrOTeCgrGUzImXepLonaMnFCvE" }
    ]
}

Disclosures:
Yr1KUNY... = ["f_ZD3150Og1VUlqREPe_mg","FR"]
mcU-e_A... = ["YIKG6qOkXXNzMQtsX_H-lw","UK"]
```

``` ascii-art
{

>     "family_name", "Möbius",

Reviewer 3: weird that invalid JSON is still invalid when copy-pasted  
```suggestion
    "family_name": "Möbius",
```

not contain decoy digests unless explicitly stated. For an example
with decoy digests, see (#example-simple_structured).

### Recursive Disclosures {#recursive_disclosures}

The algorithms above are compatible with "recursive disclosures", in which one
selectively disclosed field reveals the existence of more selectively
disclosable fields.  For example, consider the following JSON structure:

```json
{
    "family_name": "Möbius",
    "nationalities": ["DE", "FR", "UK"]
}
```

When the Holder has multiple nationalities, the issuer may wish to conceal
presence of any statement regarding nationalities while also allowing the
holder to reveal each of those nationalities individually.

> This can be accomplished by first making the entries within the `nationalities`
> array selectively disclosable, and then the whole "nationalities" field.

Reviewer 3: > I hope this is not considered extra, this feels nicer for non-native speakers..

sure and just noticed this so also let's be more consistent with ticks vs quotes 

```suggestion
This can be accomplished by first making the entries within the "nationalities"
array selectively disclosable, and then making the whole "nationalities" field
selectively disclosable.
```

``` ascii-art
{
    "family_name": "Möbius",
    "nationalities": [
        { "...": "PmnlrRjhLcwf8zTDdK15HVGwHtPYjddvD362WjBLwro" }
        { "...": "r823HFN6Ba_lpSANYtXqqCBAH-TsQlIzfOK0lRAFLCM" },
        { "...": "nP5GYjwhFm6ESlAeC4NCaIliW4tz0hTrUeoJB3lb5TA" }
    ]
}

Content of Disclosures:
PmnlrRj... = ["16_mAd0GiwaZokU26_0i0h","DE"]
r823HFN... = ["fn9fN0rD-fFs2n303ZI-0c","FR"]
nP5GYjw... = ["YIKesqOkXXNzMQtsX_-_lw","UK"]
```

> ``` ascii-art

Reviewer: don't we need a bit more explanation before this example..?

Reviewer 3: probably, yeah

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/oauth-wg/oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt/pull/431/files#r1662801181 and https://github.com/oauth-wg/oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt/pull/431/files#r1662802244 ?

Reviewer 3: now committed to this request to be committed to the main branch ad0d13711adc080f5cc0f8cabd6b836c27ec291a and 732162fa3a403bb9129a882c613e015aa0557c56

not contain decoy digests unless explicitly stated. For an example
with decoy digests, see (#example-simple_structured).

### Recursive Disclosures {#recursive_disclosures}

The algorithms above are compatible with "recursive disclosures", in which one
selectively disclosed field reveals the existence of more selectively
disclosable fields.  For example, consider the following JSON structure:

```json
{
    "family_name": "Möbius",
    "nationalities": ["DE", "FR", "UK"]
}
```

When the Holder has multiple nationalities, the issuer may wish to conceal
presence of any statement regarding nationalities while also allowing the
holder to reveal each of those nationalities individually.
This can be accomplished by first making the entries within the "nationalities"
array selectively disclosable, and then making the whole "nationalities" field
selectively disclosable.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

The following shows each of the entries within the "nationalities" array being made selectively disclosable:

```

``` ascii-art
{
    "family_name": "Möbius",
    "nationalities": [
        { "...": "PmnlrRjhLcwf8zTDdK15HVGwHtPYjddvD362WjBLwro" }
        { "...": "r823HFN6Ba_lpSANYtXqqCBAH-TsQlIzfOK0lRAFLCM" },
        { "...": "nP5GYjwhFm6ESlAeC4NCaIliW4tz0hTrUeoJB3lb5TA" }
    ]
}

Content of Disclosures:
PmnlrRj... = ["16_mAd0GiwaZokU26_0i0h","DE"]
r823HFN... = ["fn9fN0rD-fFs2n303ZI-0c","FR"]
nP5GYjw... = ["YIKesqOkXXNzMQtsX_-_lw","UK"]
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Followed by making the whole "nationalities" field selectively disclosable:

```
